NMM_CMC_NMDA/DCM.md, before:

## Neural mass model with CMC and NMDA parameters

In the model, you will find the following substruct multiple times, which will be called `model_definition`. 
This set of parameters needs to appear in the priors and constitutes, for instance, the posterior estimate substruct `DCM.Ep`.

`m` stands for the number of sources which are modelled.

```
Ep
├─── S                                                # population variance?? activation function parameters (spm_dcm_neural_priors.m)??
├─── T: [m×3 double]                                  # time constants for AMPA, GABA and NMDA channels. One row for each source. 
├─── G                                                # intrinsic connectivity. Meaning within source?
├─── GN_intrin: [m×1 double]                          # input scale to NMDA for each of the m sources. Pyramidal NMDA?? Superficial/deep?
├─── GA_intrin: [m×1 double]                          # input scale to AMPA for each of the m sources.
├─── GG_intrin: [m×1 double]                          # input scale to GABA for each of the m sources.
├─── GNi_intrin: [m×1 double]                         # input scale to interneurons NMDA
├─── GAi_intrin: [m×1 double]                         # Mg-switch sigmoid scale, slope and sensitivity 
├─── GGi_intrin: [m×1 double]                         # input scale to GABA for each of the n sources
├─── CV: [1×m double]                                 # membrane capacitance for all n sources
├─── E                                                # background noise
├─── A: {1×2 cell}, each cell: mxm sparse double        # extrinsic connections for AMPA (forward {1} and backward {2} connections between sources, row: to, col: from)
├─── AN: {1×2 cell}, each cell: mxm sparse double       # extrinsic connections for NMDA (same shape as A)
├─── C                                                # subcortical input
├─── H                                                # intrinsic connectivity. Unused? Synaptic densities (spm_dcm_neural_priors.m)?
├─── R                                                # onset and dispersion
├─── D                                                # delays
├─── Lpos                                             # ROIs (unused)
├─── L                                                # leadfield: orientation for ECD, coefficients of local modes for Imaging, gain of electrodes for LFP
├─── J                                                # contributing states (length(J) = number of states per source) (spm_L_priors.m)
├─── a: [2×m double] sparse                           # neuronal innovations? Why these dimensions?
├─── b: [2×1 double] sparse                           # channel noise (not source-specific)?? 2 channels?
├─── c: [2×1 double] sparse                           # channel noise (source-specific)?? Why does it have the same first dimension as b?
├─── d: [8×m double] sparse                           # channel noise (basis set coefficients)?? Why the 8?
```

And now, I give you the DCM struct:
```
DCM
├─── M								 # 'M' for 'model'?
|    ├─── P                         # model parameters
|    |    ├─── model_definition
|    ├─── pE                        # prior expectation
|    |    ├─── model_definition
|    ├─── Nmax                      # max number of iterations for the EM algorithm?
|    ├─── dipfit                    # spatial model specification. Gives dipole structure?? Basically lead-field parameters??
|    |    ├─── model: 'CMM_NMDA'
|    |    ├─── type					# 'ECD', 'LFP' or 'IMG' (Same as DCM.options.spatial)
|    |    ├─── Ic					# Good channel indices
|    |    ├─── location				# 0 or 1 (spm_dcm_erp_dipfit.m): allow changes in source location (ECD) (spm_L_priors.m)
|    |    ├─── symmetry				# 0 or 1 for symmetry constraints on sources (spm_dcm_erp_dipfit.m). distance (mm) for symmetry constraints (ECD) (spm_L_priors.m)
|    |    ├─── Lpos					# x,y,z source positions (mm) (ECD)
|    |    ├─── modality				# 'EEG', 'MEG', 'MEGPLANAR' or 'LFP' 
|    |    ├─── Ns					# number of sources (spm_dcm_erp_dipfit.m and spm_L_priors.m)
|    |    ├─── Nc					# number of good channels (spm_L_priors.m)
|    |    ├─── silent_source
|    |    ├─── vol					# volume structure (for M/EEG). Basically head model?
|    |    |    ├─── bnd
|    |    |    |    ├─── pos
|    |    |    |    ├─── tri
|    |    |    ├─── cond
|    |    |    ├─── mat
|    |    |    ├─── type
|    |    |    ├─── unit
|    |    |    ├─── cfg
|    |    |    |    ├─── method
|    |    |    |    ├─── outputfilepresent
|    |    |    |    ├─── toolbox
|    |    |    |    ├─── callinfo
|    |    |    |    ├─── version
|    |    |    |    ├─── headshape
|    |    |    |    ├─── conductivity
|    |    |    |    ├─── tissue
|    |    |    |    ├─── smooth
|    |    |    |    ├─── threshold
|    |    |    |    ├─── numvertices
|    |    |    |    ├─── isolatedsource
|    |    |    |    ├─── fitind
|    |    |    |    ├─── point
|    |    |    |    ├─── submethod
|    |    |    |    ├─── feedback
|    |    |    |    ├─── radius
|    |    |    |    ├─── maxradius
|    |    |    |    ├─── baseline
|    |    |    |    ├─── singlesphere
|    |    |    |    ├─── tissueval
|    |    |    |    ├─── transform
|    |    |    |    ├─── siunits
|    |    |    |    ├─── headmodel
|    |    |    |    ├─── previous
|    |    |    ├─── skin_surface
|    |    |    ├─── inner_skull_surface
|    |    |    ├─── source
|    |    ├─── datareg						# registration structure (for M/EEG)
|    |    |    ├─── sensors
|    |    |    |    ├─── chanpos
|    |    |    |    ├─── elecpos
|    |    |    |    ├─── chantype
|    |    |    |    ├─── chanunit
|    |    |    |    ├─── label
|    |    |    |    ├─── unit
|    |    |    ├─── fid_eeg
|    |    |    |    ├─── pnt
|    |    |    |    ├─── fid
|    |    |    |    |    ├─── pnt
|    |    |    |    |    ├─── label
|    |    |    |    ├─── unit:'mm'
|    |    |    ├─── fid_mri
|    |    |    |    ├─── pnt
|    |    |    |    ├─── fid
|    |    |    |    |    ├─── pnt
|    |    |    |    |    ├─── label
|    |    |    |    ├─── unit:'mm'
|    |    |    ├─── toMNI
|    |    |    ├─── fromMNI
|    |    |    ├─── modality					# Same as DCM.M.dipfit.modality
|    |    ├─── sens
|    |    |    ├─── chantype
|    |    |    ├─── chanunit: {'V', ... , 'V'}
|    |    |    ├─── elepos
|    |    |    ├─── label
|    |    |    ├─── type
|    |    |    ├─── unit: 'mm'
|    |    |    ├─── chanpos
|    |    ├─── siunits: false 				# ?? Boolean? What for?
|    |    ├─── G: {1×m} cell, where each entry = L(:,Ip)*U	# L is the Lead-field or gain matrix L(:,Is)
|    |    ├─── U: {1×m} cell					# singular vectors, output of spm_svd.m, which computes "computationally efficient SVD (that can handle sparse arguments)". channel eigenmodes, U is scaled to ensure trace(U'*L*L'*U) = Nm (spm_dcm_eeg_channelmodes.m). Channel subspace (spm_dcm_csd_data.m)
|    |    ├─── Ip: {1×m} cell					# ?? nearest mesh points??
|    |    ├─── radius						# radius in mm of source?
|    |    ├─── Nm							# number of modes per region
|    |    ├─── Nd							# number of dipoles
|    |    ├─── gainmat						# Lead field filename
|    ├─── IS: 'spm_csd_mtf'                             # Spectral response of a NMM (transfer function x noise spectrum)
|    ├─── FS 
|    ├─── g: 'spm_gx_erp'                               # observer for a neural mass model of event related potentials. Unused?
|    ├─── f: 'spm_fx_cmm_NMDA'                          # calls state equations of motion for canonical neural-mass and mean-field models 
|    ├─── x                                             # neural states. Initialized as zero sparse matrix.
|    ├─── n                                             # total number of neural states. Defined as length(spm_vec(DCM.M.x))
|    ├─── pC                                            # prior (co)variances
|    |   ├─── model_definition
|    ├─── hE                                            # prespecified as 8 or 6? Why? What does this represent?
|    ├─── hC                                            # prespecified as 1/128 or 1/64? Why? What does this represent?
|    ├─── m                                             # number of sources
|    ├─── u: sparse(m,1)						# 
|    ├─── U									# channel eigenmodes
|    ├─── l = DCM.options.Nmodes
|    ├─── Hz = DCM.xY.Hz						# Frequencies over which we are inverting.
|    ├─── dt = DCM.xY.dt
├─── name: '<name of DCM file>'
├─── xY: [1x1 struct]                                   # data
|    ├─── Dfile: '<path/to/preprocessed/EEG/data>'
|    ├─── y									# Same as DCM.xY.csd in my case. If using CSD data, is this always equal to DCM.xY.csd?
|    ├─── xy
|    ├─── modality: 'EEG'
|    ├─── name								# channel names (see spm_dcm_erp_data.m)
|    ├─── Ic                             	# Good channel indices
|    ├─── Time								# PST (ms) --> peristimulus time?
|    ├─── dt								# time bins=1/sampling_rate from the MEEG objected containing the data. Sampling in seconds [s] (down-sampled) (spm_dcm_csd_data.m)
|    ├─── coord2D							# x and y topographic coordinates of channels in 2D plane
|    ├─── pst								# Down-sampled PST (Peristimulus Time [ms])
|    ├─── It								# Indices of time bins
|    ├─── nt								# Length of vector of trial indices based on condition labels (length of nt is equal to the number of conditions)
|    ├─── code								# ?? In my model: 'Undefined'. Trial codes evaluated (spm_dcm_csd_data.m)
|    ├─── scale								# ?? In my model: 1
|    ├─── X0								# Basis functions for Discrete Cosine Transform. But for what?
|    ├─── R: = speye(Ns) - X0*X0'
|    ├─── Hz								# Frequency bins
|    ├─── csd								# cross spectral density over sources
|    ├─── orig_data_size
|    ├─── inds_used_size2
|    ├─── csd_per_trial
|    ├─── U									# channel subspace
|    ├─── Q
├─── options
|    ├─── trials					   # trial to evaluate; 1 if resting state EEG.
|    ├─── analysis: 'CSD'			   # type of analysis run??
|    ├─── model: 'CMM_NMDA'           # 'ERP', 'SEP', 'CMC', 'LFP', 'NMM' or 'MFM'
|    ├─── spatial: 'IMG'              # 'ECD', 'LFP' or 'IMG'     (see spm_erp_L)
|    ├─── Tidcm                       # [start end] time window in ms
|    ├─── Fdcm                        # [start end] Frequency window in Hz
|    ├─── Nmodes                      # number of spatial modes??? Defined as 8 in spm_dcm_csd.m
|    ├─── D                           # time bin decimation (usually 1 or 2)?? Down-sampling (spm_dcm_csd_data.m)
├─── Lpos: [3×m double]				   # MNI coordinates for the m regions of interest (ROI)						
├─── Sname: {'S1', 'S2, ... }                         # source names
├─── A: {[m×m double]  [m×m double]  [m×m double]}    # binary constraints on the extrinsic (between source) connections. 3 cell entries because I am modelling forward, backward and lateral connections??
├─── C:n×0 empty sparse double matrix # binary constraints on the regions which receive external input. In my case, we are collecting resting-state data, hence we have an empty field here. n is the number of conditions.
├─── B                                # binary constraints on the modulatory connections for each of the m conditions. Can also be empty.
├─── xU: [1x1 struct]                              # design
|    ├─── X
├─── val							   # ??
├─── dtf                              # directed transfer functions (source space)
├─── ccf                              # cross covariance functions (source space)
├─── coh                              # cross coherence functions (source space)
├─── fsd                              # specific delay functions (source space)
├─── pst                              # peristimulus time
├─── Hz                               # frequency (vector with integer values of the analyzed frequency spectrum, e.g. if 2-10 Hz, then DCM.Hz is the same as the vector [2:10].
├─── Ep                               # conditional expectation. Meaning your posterior estimates of the model parameters??
|    ├─── model_definition
├─── Cp                               # conditional covariance. posterior covariance matrices??
├─── Pp                               # conditional probability. posterior probability of each parameter??
|    ├─── model_definition
├─── Hc                               # conditional responses (y), channel space. Model estimates for the generated data.
├─── Rc                               # conditional residuals (y), channel space. Residuals??
├─── Hs                               # conditional responses (y), source space
├─── Ce                               # eML error covariance. eML = extended maximum likelihood??
├─── Ce_Eh
├─── F                                # Laplace log evidence
├─── ID                               # data ID

```

## Resources:
- [spm_dcm_csd.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_dcm_csd.m)
	1. **Definition of spatial model**
		- Calls to prepare structures for forward model: [spm_dcm_erp_data.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_dcm_erp_data.m)
		- Calls to prepare structures for ECD forward model (EEG, MEG and LFP): [spm_dcm_erp_dipfit.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_dcm_erp_dipfit.m)
	1. **Definition of priors**: use SPM default priors or priors pre-specified by user.
		- Priors for NMM: [spm_dcm_neural_priors.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_dcm_neural_priors.m). Several cases are considered in this script. For example, if the model defined is a CMM_NMDA, the script [spm_cmm_NMDA_priors.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_cmm_NMDA_priors.m) is called.
  		- Priors for spatial model: [spm_L_priors.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_L_priors.m). Parameters for electromagnetic forward model are based on the `DCM.dipfit.type` ('ECD', 'LFP' or 'IMG'). The contributing states (encoded in pE.J and pC.J) will depend on `DCM.dipfit.model`.
		- Priors on endogenous inputs (neuronal) and noise: [spm_ssr_priors.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_ssr_priors.m)
	1. **Definition of initial states and equations of motion**: 
		- Calls: [spm_dcm_x_neural.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_dcm_x_neural.m). According to the type of model, different functions will be called. For instance, a `CM_NMDA` model will call [spm_fx_cmm_NMDA.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_fx_cmm_NMDA.m)
	1. **Extraction of channel eigenmodes**: [spm_dcm_eeg_channelmodes.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_dcm_eeg_channelmodes.m)
	1. **Gets cross-spectral density data-features** using a VAR model: [spm_dcm_csd_data.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_dcm_csd_data.m)

- [spm_dcm_neural_priors.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_dcm_neural_priors.m)
  - Defines prior moments on the parameters with [spm_cmc_priors.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_cmc_priors.m) or accepts user input.



  - Defines initial states and equations of motion with [spm_dcm_x_neural.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_dcm_x_neural.m)
  - Defines initial states and equations of motion through [spm_dcm_csd.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_dcm_csd.m).
- [spm_erp_L.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_erp_L.m)
  - The lead field (L) is constructed using the specific parameters in P and, where necessary, information in the dipole structure dipfit. For ECD models P.Lpos and P.L encode the position and moments of the ECD. The field `dipfit.type` ('ECD', 'LFP' or 'IMG') determines whether the model is ECD or not. For imaging reconstructions the paramters `P.L` are a (m x n) matrix of coefficients that scale the contrition of n sources to `m = dipfit.Nm` modes encoded in `dipfit.G`. For LFP models (the default), `P.L` simply encodes the electrode gain for each source contributing a LFP.
  
## Special thanks
I want to thank Moritz Gruber for helping me get started on this and sharing his notes and thoughts with me. It made searching through the spm repository a much easier task!

Commit message:

Updated documentation until inversion scheme.

NMM_CMC_NMDA/DCM.md, after:

## Neural mass model with CMC and NMDA parameters

In the model, you will find the following substruct multiple times, which will be called `model_definition`. 
This set of parameters needs to appear in the priors and constitutes, for instance, the posterior estimate substruct `DCM.Ep`.

`m` stands for the number of sources which are modelled.

```
Ep
├─── S                                                # population variance?? activation function parameters (spm_dcm_neural_priors.m)??
├─── T: [m×3 double]                                  # time constants for AMPA, GABA and NMDA channels. One row for each source. 
├─── G                                                # intrinsic connectivity. Meaning within source?
├─── GN_intrin: [m×1 double]                          # input scale to NMDA for each of the m sources. Pyramidal NMDA?? Superficial/deep?
├─── GA_intrin: [m×1 double]                          # input scale to AMPA for each of the m sources.
├─── GG_intrin: [m×1 double]                          # input scale to GABA for each of the m sources.
├─── GNi_intrin: [m×1 double]                         # input scale to interneurons NMDA
├─── GAi_intrin: [m×1 double]                         # Mg-switch sigmoid scale, slope and sensitivity 
├─── GGi_intrin: [m×1 double]                         # input scale to GABA for each of the n sources
├─── CV: [1×m double]                                 # membrane capacitance for all n sources
├─── E                                                # background noise
├─── A: {1×2 cell}, each cell: mxm sparse double        # extrinsic connections for AMPA (forward {1} and backward {2} connections between sources, row: to, col: from)
├─── AN: {1×2 cell}, each cell: mxm sparse double       # extrinsic connections for NMDA (same shape as A)
├─── C                                                # subcortical input
├─── H                                                # intrinsic connectivity. Unused? Synaptic densities (spm_dcm_neural_priors.m)?
├─── R                                                # onset and dispersion
├─── D                                                # delays
├─── Lpos                                             # ROIs (unused)
├─── L                                                # leadfield: orientation for ECD, coefficients of local modes for Imaging, gain of electrodes for LFP
├─── J                                                # contributing states (length(J) = number of states per source) (spm_L_priors.m)
├─── a: [2×m double] sparse                           # neuronal innovations? Why these dimensions?
├─── b: [2×1 double] sparse                           # channel noise (not source-specific)?? 2 channels?
├─── c: [2×1 double] sparse                           # channel noise (source-specific)?? Why does it have the same first dimension as b?
├─── d: [8×m double] sparse                           # channel noise (basis set coefficients)?? Why the 8?
```

And now, I give you the DCM struct:
```
DCM
├─── M								 # 'M' for 'model'?
|    ├─── P                         # model parameters. Starting estimates for model parameters [optional] (spm_nlsi_GN.m). Basically taken from pE.
|    |    ├─── model_definition
|    ├─── pE                        # prior expectation
|    |    ├─── model_definition
|    ├─── Nmax                      # max number of iterations for the EM algorithm?
|    ├─── dipfit                    # spatial model specification. Gives dipole structure?? Basically lead-field parameters??
|    |    ├─── model: 'CMM_NMDA'
|    |    ├─── type					# 'ECD', 'LFP' or 'IMG' (Same as DCM.options.spatial)
|    |    ├─── Ic					# Good channel indices
|    |    ├─── location				# 0 or 1 (spm_dcm_erp_dipfit.m): allow changes in source location (ECD) (spm_L_priors.m)
|    |    ├─── symmetry				# 0 or 1 for symmetry constraints on sources (spm_dcm_erp_dipfit.m). distance (mm) for symmetry constraints (ECD) (spm_L_priors.m)
|    |    ├─── Lpos					# x,y,z source positions (mm) (ECD)
|    |    ├─── modality				# 'EEG', 'MEG', 'MEGPLANAR' or 'LFP' 
|    |    ├─── Ns					# number of sources (spm_dcm_erp_dipfit.m and spm_L_priors.m)
|    |    ├─── Nc					# number of good channels (spm_L_priors.m)
|    |    ├─── silent_source
|    |    ├─── vol					# volume structure (for M/EEG). Basically head model?
|    |    |    ├─── bnd
|    |    |    |    ├─── pos
|    |    |    |    ├─── tri
|    |    |    ├─── cond
|    |    |    ├─── mat
|    |    |    ├─── type
|    |    |    ├─── unit
|    |    |    ├─── cfg
|    |    |    |    ├─── method
|    |    |    |    ├─── outputfilepresent
|    |    |    |    ├─── toolbox
|    |    |    |    ├─── callinfo
|    |    |    |    ├─── version
|    |    |    |    ├─── headshape
|    |    |    |    ├─── conductivity
|    |    |    |    ├─── tissue
|    |    |    |    ├─── smooth
|    |    |    |    ├─── threshold
|    |    |    |    ├─── numvertices
|    |    |    |    ├─── isolatedsource
|    |    |    |    ├─── fitind
|    |    |    |    ├─── point
|    |    |    |    ├─── submethod
|    |    |    |    ├─── feedback
|    |    |    |    ├─── radius
|    |    |    |    ├─── maxradius
|    |    |    |    ├─── baseline
|    |    |    |    ├─── singlesphere
|    |    |    |    ├─── tissueval
|    |    |    |    ├─── transform
|    |    |    |    ├─── siunits
|    |    |    |    ├─── headmodel
|    |    |    |    ├─── previous
|    |    |    ├─── skin_surface
|    |    |    ├─── inner_skull_surface
|    |    |    ├─── source
|    |    ├─── datareg						# registration structure (for M/EEG)
|    |    |    ├─── sensors
|    |    |    |    ├─── chanpos
|    |    |    |    ├─── elecpos
|    |    |    |    ├─── chantype
|    |    |    |    ├─── chanunit
|    |    |    |    ├─── label
|    |    |    |    ├─── unit
|    |    |    ├─── fid_eeg
|    |    |    |    ├─── pnt
|    |    |    |    ├─── fid
|    |    |    |    |    ├─── pnt
|    |    |    |    |    ├─── label
|    |    |    |    ├─── unit:'mm'
|    |    |    ├─── fid_mri
|    |    |    |    ├─── pnt
|    |    |    |    ├─── fid
|    |    |    |    |    ├─── pnt
|    |    |    |    |    ├─── label
|    |    |    |    ├─── unit:'mm'
|    |    |    ├─── toMNI
|    |    |    ├─── fromMNI
|    |    |    ├─── modality					# Same as DCM.M.dipfit.modality
|    |    ├─── sens
|    |    |    ├─── chantype
|    |    |    ├─── chanunit: {'V', ... , 'V'}
|    |    |    ├─── elepos
|    |    |    ├─── label
|    |    |    ├─── type
|    |    |    ├─── unit: 'mm'
|    |    |    ├─── chanpos
|    |    ├─── siunits: false 				# ?? Boolean? What for?
|    |    ├─── G: {1×m} cell, where each entry = L(:,Ip)*U	# L is the Lead-field or gain matrix L(:,Is)
|    |    ├─── U: {1×m} cell					# singular vectors, output of spm_svd.m, which computes "computationally efficient SVD (that can handle sparse arguments)". channel eigenmodes, U is scaled to ensure trace(U'*L*L'*U) = Nm (spm_dcm_eeg_channelmodes.m). Channel subspace (spm_dcm_csd_data.m)
|    |    ├─── Ip: {1×m} cell					# ?? nearest mesh points??
|    |    ├─── radius						# radius in mm of source?
|    |    ├─── Nm							# number of modes per region
|    |    ├─── Nd							# number of dipoles
|    |    ├─── gainmat						# Lead field filename
|    ├─── IS: 'spm_csd_mtf'                             # Spectral response of a NMM (transfer function x noise spectrum). function name f(P,M,U) - generative model. This function specifies the nonlinear model: y = Y.y = IS(P,M,U) + X0*P0 + e, where e ~ N(0,C). (spm_nlsi_GN.m)
|    ├─── FS 								# function name f(y,M), feature selection. This [optional] function performs feature selection assuming the generalized model y = FS(y,M) = FS(IS(P,M,U),M) + X0*P0 + e (spm_nlsi_GN.m)
|    ├─── g: 'spm_gx_erp'                               # observer for a neural mass model of event related potentials. Unused?
|    ├─── f: 'spm_fx_cmm_NMDA'                          # calls state equations of motion for canonical neural-mass and mean-field models 
|    ├─── x                                             # neural states. Initialized as zero sparse matrix.
|    ├─── n                                             # total number of neural states. Defined as length(spm_vec(DCM.M.x))
|    ├─── pC                                            # prior (co)variances
|    |   ├─── model_definition
|    ├─── hE                                            # prespecified as 8 or 6? Why? What does this represent? conditional log-precisions E{h|y} (spm_nlsi_GN.m)
|    ├─── hC                                            # prespecified as 1/128 or 1/64? Why? What does this represent?
|    ├─── m                                             # number of sources
|    ├─── u: sparse(m,1)						# inputs or causes
|    ├─── U									# channel eigenmodes
|    ├─── l = DCM.options.Nmodes
|    ├─── Hz = DCM.xY.Hz						# Frequencies over which we are inverting.
|    ├─── dt = DCM.xY.dt
├─── name: '<name of DCM file>'
├─── xY: [1x1 struct]                                   # data
|    ├─── Dfile: '<path/to/preprocessed/EEG/data>'
|    ├─── y									# Same as DCM.xY.csd in my case. If using CSD data, is this always equal to DCM.xY.csd?
|    ├─── xy
|    ├─── modality: 'EEG'
|    ├─── name								# channel names (see spm_dcm_erp_data.m)
|    ├─── Ic                             	# Good channel indices
|    ├─── Time								# PST (ms) --> peristimulus time?
|    ├─── dt								# time bins=1/sampling_rate from the MEEG objected containing the data. Sampling in seconds [s] (down-sampled) (spm_dcm_csd_data.m)
|    ├─── coord2D							# x and y topographic coordinates of channels in 2D plane
|    ├─── pst								# Down-sampled PST (Peristimulus Time [ms])
|    ├─── It								# Indices of time bins
|    ├─── nt								# Length of vector of trial indices based on condition labels (length of nt is equal to the number of conditions)
|    ├─── code								# ?? In my model: 'Undefined'. Trial codes evaluated (spm_dcm_csd_data.m)
|    ├─── scale								# ?? In my model: 1
|    ├─── X0								# Basis functions for Discrete Cosine Transform. But for what? In spm_nlsi_GN.m, this is documented as confounds or null space.
|    ├─── R: = speye(Ns) - X0*X0'
|    ├─── Hz								# Frequency bins
|    ├─── csd								# cross spectral density over sources
|    ├─── orig_data_size
|    ├─── inds_used_size2
|    ├─── csd_per_trial
|    ├─── U									# channel subspace
|    ├─── Q									# q error precision components
├─── options
|    ├─── trials					   # trial to evaluate; 1 if resting state EEG.
|    ├─── analysis: 'CSD'			   # type of analysis run??
|    ├─── model: 'CMM_NMDA'           # 'ERP', 'SEP', 'CMC', 'LFP', 'NMM' or 'MFM'
|    ├─── spatial: 'IMG'              # 'ECD', 'LFP' or 'IMG'     (see spm_erp_L)
|    ├─── Tidcm                       # [start end] time window in ms
|    ├─── Fdcm                        # [start end] Frequency window in Hz
|    ├─── Nmodes                      # number of spatial modes??? Defined as 8 in spm_dcm_csd.m
|    ├─── D                           # time bin decimation (usually 1 or 2)?? Down-sampling (spm_dcm_csd_data.m)
├─── Lpos: [3×m double]				   # MNI coordinates for the m regions of interest (ROI)						
├─── Sname: {'S1', 'S2, ... }                         # source names
├─── A: {[m×m double]  [m×m double]  [m×m double]}    # binary constraints on the extrinsic (between source) connections. 3 cell entries because I am modelling forward, backward and lateral connections??
├─── C:n×0 empty sparse double matrix # binary constraints on the regions which receive external input. In my case, we are collecting resting-state data, hence we have an empty field here. n is the number of conditions.
├─── B                                # binary constraints on the modulatory connections for each of the m conditions. Can also be empty.
├─── xU: [1x1 struct]                              # design
|    ├─── X
├─── val							   # ??
├─── dtf                              # directed transfer functions (source space)
├─── ccf                              # cross covariance functions (source space)
├─── coh                              # cross coherence functions (source space)
├─── fsd                              # specific delay functions (source space)
├─── pst                              # peristimulus time
├─── Hz                               # frequency (vector with integer values of the analyzed frequency spectrum, e.g. if 2-10 Hz, then DCM.Hz is the same as the vector [2:10].
├─── Ep                               # conditional expectation E{P|y}. Meaning your posterior estimates of the model parameters??
|    ├─── model_definition
├─── Cp                               # conditional covariance Cov{P|y}. posterior covariance matrices??
├─── Pp                               # conditional probability. posterior probability of each parameter??
|    ├─── model_definition
├─── Hc                               # conditional responses (y), channel space. Model estimates for the generated data.
├─── Rc                               # conditional residuals (y), channel space. Residuals??
├─── Hs                               # conditional responses (y), source space
├─── Ce                               # eML error covariance. eML = extended maximum likelihood??
├─── Ce_Eh
├─── F                                # Laplace log evidence. [-ve] free energy F = log evidence = p(y|f,g,pE,pC) = p(y|m) (spm_nlsi_GN.m)
├─── ID                               # data ID

```

## Resources:
- Going through [spm_dcm_csd.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_dcm_csd.m)
	1. **Definition of spatial model**
		- Calls to prepare structures for forward model: [spm_dcm_erp_data.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_dcm_erp_data.m)
		- Calls to prepare structures for ECD forward model (EEG, MEG and LFP): [spm_dcm_erp_dipfit.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_dcm_erp_dipfit.m)
	1. **Definition of priors**: use SPM default priors or priors pre-specified by user.
		- Priors for NMM: [spm_dcm_neural_priors.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_dcm_neural_priors.m). Several cases are considered in this script. For example, if the model defined is a CMM_NMDA, the script [spm_cmm_NMDA_priors.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_cmm_NMDA_priors.m) is called.
  		- Priors for spatial model: [spm_L_priors.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_L_priors.m). Parameters for electromagnetic forward model are based on the `DCM.dipfit.type` ('ECD', 'LFP' or 'IMG'). The contributing states (encoded in pE.J and pC.J) will depend on `DCM.dipfit.model`.
		- Priors on endogenous inputs (neuronal) and noise: [spm_ssr_priors.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_ssr_priors.m)
	1. **Definition of initial states and equations of motion**: 
		- Calls: [spm_dcm_x_neural.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_dcm_x_neural.m). According to the type of model, different functions will be called. For instance, a `CM_NMDA` model will call [spm_fx_cmm_NMDA.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_fx_cmm_NMDA.m)
	1. **Extraction of channel eigenmodes**: [spm_dcm_eeg_channelmodes.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_dcm_eeg_channelmodes.m)
	1. **Gets cross-spectral density data-features** using a VAR model: [spm_dcm_csd_data.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_dcm_csd_data.m), which sets a lot of fields of DCM.xY.
	1. **Model inversion**: [spm_nlsi_GN.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/spm_nlsi_GN.m).


- [spm_dcm_neural_priors.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_dcm_neural_priors.m)
  - Defines prior moments on the parameters with [spm_cmc_priors.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_cmc_priors.m) or accepts user input.



  - Defines initial states and equations of motion with [spm_dcm_x_neural.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_dcm_x_neural.m)
  - Defines initial states and equations of motion through [spm_dcm_csd.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_dcm_csd.m).
- [spm_erp_L.m](https://github.com/spm/spm12/blob/master/toolbox/dcm_meeg/spm_erp_L.m)
  - The lead field (L) is constructed using the specific parameters in P and, where necessary, information in the dipole structure dipfit. For ECD models P.Lpos and P.L encode the position and moments of the ECD. The field `dipfit.type` ('ECD', 'LFP' or 'IMG') determines whether the model is ECD or not. For imaging reconstructions the paramters `P.L` are a (m x n) matrix of coefficients that scale the contrition of n sources to `m = dipfit.Nm` modes encoded in `dipfit.G`. For LFP models (the default), `P.L` simply encodes the electrode gain for each source contributing a LFP.
  
## Special thanks
I want to thank Moritz Gruber for helping me get started on this and sharing his notes and thoughts with me. It made searching through the spm repository a much easier task!
